>> Shirley Wu: So this workshop is called
Building Custom Data Visualizations.
My name is Shirley, and I'm an independent
creator of data visualizations.
And I'm a co-organizer of
barrier d3 user group and
the annual d3.unconference,
which is usually in the fall,
and please check it out
if you're interested.
And I'm also an instructor
on Frontend Masters.
So I have a few different
workshops on Frontend Masters,
and I want to go through
this with you today.
So yesterday, I did the workshop called
Data Visualization for React Developers.
And so that one, the goal for is for
people that are coming from a very
strong Frontend React background,
but don't yet
have any database D3 background.
And I wanted a slow,
sort of gentle introduction into D3,
into Data Visualization,
without getting caught up in
the details of what a lot of
people are intimidated by in D3,
which is kind of the data binding,
enter, update, exit patterns.
And then once they get
through that they can check
out the introduction to D3 workshop.
And in that one I cover what we
consider the core parts of D3,
which is that data binding,
interrupt data exit, and all of that,
and then hopefully teach people
how to look into D3 [LAUGH] API.
How to read through the API,
how to read code samples.
And I'm so excited about today,
because originally I
was considering doing something
that was like advanced D3.
But then as I thought a lot more about
what an advanced D3 workshop would be,
it felt like it would be kind of an
enumerating and going through the D3 API.
And maybe we'll build forest
layouts in these different ways,
we'll build trees in different ways or
something.
And I felt like that just wasn't as
much of a productive use of our time,
cuz I feel like that sort of
thing just comes with practice.
The intuition of how to use
different parts of the library and
how to read the library documentation,
etc, just comes with practice.
And so instead I really thought about,
what do I want people to be able
to get out of this workshop?
If not advanced D3,
what is it that I want to teach people?
And then I realized one of the hardest
things I had in these few years of
building data visualization is,
I come from a computer science background.
I come back from a Frontend
engineering background, and
I got into data visualization with D3.
And so I understand the code part of
building data visualizations, but
what I didn't realize until
maybe a few years in,
is how important all of the other parts
of building data visualizations are.
So where to get data sets, how to explore
that data set, and explore that for
some sort of a message, or insight, or
something you're trying to communicate.
How to design around that, and then
how to turn that design into the code,
which is the part that, as Frontend
developers on Frontend Masters,
we're probably really good at.
I feel like the code part is
probably quite trivial as soon as
you get a good design to
translate into the code.
So today I want to concentrate a lot on,
or
give equal parts to the data,
the design, and the code.
And so that is the goal for today.
And if you've been here
in the other workshops or
if you've gone through my other
workshops you might realize
there is some overlap between
all three of these workshops.
So I want these workshops to be
able to stand on their own, but
there is going to be some overlap,
so please be patient with that.
And then if you're coming,
not from React but from elsewhere,
my recommendation is to go from
Intro to D3 to this workshop.
And then, actually it might
be good to look at kind of
the tail-end of
the React Developers workshop.
Because in that part, I covered very
briefly how to do interactions between
different visualizations,
what we call linked visualizations, and
it's kind of harder to do that with
just Vanilla JavaScript and D3.
But with React or
with these sorts of frameworks,
they make it really easy to be able
to do interactive visualizations.
So that's my recommendations for
the workshops I have on Frontend Masters.